in this video I will break down the
commonly used option trading strategy
bottle a spritz bottle of last breaths
are a very interesting strategy and they
can be very profitable first of all
let's start with the basics
a butterfly spread consists of different
options on the same underlying asset and
with the same expiration date but with
different stripe prices there are two
different butterfly spreads
you can either trade short butterfly
spreads or long butterfly spreads one
main difference being that short
butterfly spreads are open for credit
and long bottle fly spreads are opened
for a debit in other words you get paid
to open a short butterfly spread and you
have to pay to open a long butterfly
spread let us move on to the setup and
payoff of butterfly spreads the short
butterfly spread is a price in different
strategy and a long butterfly spread is
arranged balanced strategy I will
predict present this difference more
thoroughly later in this video
this is how the payoff diagrams of the
two different spreads look like as you
can see a long butterfly spread is more
or less just an inverted version of the
short butterfly spread the orange line
shows the payoff profile on the
expiration date whereas the blue line
shows that shows the payoff some time
before that you should focus on the
orange line as it's more significant the
setup of butterflies spreads the rep is
relatively simple but before I present
that I have to say that there are two
different butterfly variations for both
short and long butterfly spreads
they are both put and cool butterfly
spreads there are only very few minor
differences between these all options
are puts for put butterflies and all
options are calls for cool butterflies
to set up a short put butterfly you will
need to sell one in the money put by two
at the money put and sell one out of the
money put if you exchange all the puts
with calls you'll have a short call
butterfly to understand the setup better
look at the crosses on the payoff
diagram the great crosses symbolized
short options and the green crosses
represent long the long options the
setup of a long butterfly spread is an
inverted version of the short butterfly
setup instead of selling one in the
money and one out of the money put
you'll need to buy these and sell the
two at the money puts the same goes for
a long cool butterfly spread once again
the crosses symbolized the different
options now that we have the setup
covered I will present you the profit
and loss of butterflies breads on the
payoff diagram of the short butterfly
spread you can recognize that the price
of the underlying asset has to move
beyond one of the strikes of the short
options to achieve max profit if the
price does not move enough the loss will
occur max loss will only occur if the
price of the underlying is exactly on
the strike price of Luber long options
this is the other way around for long
butterfly spreads here a profit will be
achieved if the price does not move lot
and Max profit will be achieved if the
price is exactly at the short strikes on
expiration if the underlyings price
moves further and one of the long
strikes max loss will occur butterfly
spreads are a defined risk and a defined
profit strategy meaning that you can't
lose or win more than a certain amount
to understand what influences the price
of butterflies I will present how you
can calculate your max profit max loss
and breakeven points don't worry if you
find
is complicated you will usually never
have to do this yourself as every good
broker should display these figures in
their broker platform the first
calculation is very easy to find out the
max profit of short butterflies you only
have to look at the net premium taken in
and subtract commissions from that the
result of that calculation is also the
max loss of a long butterfly spread with
the exact same setup the only difference
is that you have to add commissions
instead of subtracting them the next
calculation is more complicated you have
to find out the width of the strikes on
one side multiply that by 100 and add or
subtract commissions from that to find
the max loss of short butterflies you
will have to add commissions and to find
max profit for long butterflies you will
have to subtract the commissions I will
present these calculations with two
example butterflies so that you can
understand them much better but I will
disregard commissions in that example as
they really don't help with
understanding the strikes for the short
and long example butterflies bread or 95
100 and 105 the premium paid or taken in
is 72 dollars but note that option
prices are quoted in quantities of 1
even though the standard quantity is 100
therefore I write 0.72 dollars when I
mean 72 dollars the first calculation is
quite straightforward max profit for our
short butterflies bread is 72 dollars
and this is also the max loss for the
long butterflies bread for the next
calculation we will have to find the
width of the strikes first the
difference between the abdomen strikes
and one of the outer options is 5 so the
width of the strikes is 5 for both
spreads now we have to multiply 5
by 100 and sell subtract the result with
the premium so $72 the result is 428
dollars and that's also the max loss for
the short butter flatbread and the max
profit for the long butter flatbread now
the only relevant point left to find out
other breakeven points to find these out
you will have to subtract a credit or
debit from the upper option and add the
credit or debit to the lower strike the
break-even point for our spreads are 104
point two eight dollars and ninety five
point seven two dollars next up is the
market assumption of these spreads I
already touched it on this earlier both
spreads are neutral strategies but they
are different kind of neutral strategies
short butterfly spreads are prized in
different strategies meaning that it
does not matter in which direction the
price moves as long as it moves long
butterfly spreads on the other hand are
range bound strategies this means that
the price ideally should stay in a
certain price range but as this range
usually is very narrow long butterflies
are a rather low probability strategy
and short butterflies are rather high
probability option strategy let's take a
closer look at the payoff diagram once
again short butterfly spreads are
profitable as long as the underlying
price moves far enough this means that
the entire price range beyond one of the
short strikes is profitable this is
actually quite a big profitable range
but this is also the case for long iron
condors even though these usually are
much lower probability strategy the
reason for that is that short butterfly
spreads normally are quite narrow so the
price only has to move few points for
the spread
to pick up calm profitable furthermore
max loss is very unlikely for short
butterfly spreads because the price of
the underlying asset has to be exactly
at the strike price of the long options
all of this is the other way around for
the long butterfly spread the underlying
price may only move very little for this
strategy to be profitable max profit is
also quite on probable thus the
profitable range tends to be very
relatively small for long bottle fly
spreads one of the last things that I
want to present to you in this video are
the Greece the Greeks measured changes
in the options price for different
scenarios short butterfly spreads react
different to specific scenarios and long
butterfly spreads I always used this
table in my videos it shows the impact
of the different Greeks on different
option positions the long options are
the most valuable and thus most dominant
options for short butterfly spreads and
that's also the reason why the Greeks
for the long options are the relevant
ones for short butterflies fred's you
could argue that short butterflies rapid
spreads should be called long butterfly
spreads but that's a different topic as
the short options are the dominant ones
for long butterfly spreads they are the
ones to look at for longer butterfly
spreads before I begin to explain the
impact of every Greek more thoroughly I
just want to say that you can disregard
row for now as it really isn't that
important for shorter term option
spreads let's start with delta delta
measures the change in the options price
for one dollar move up in the underline
but as butterfly spreads and Neutra
strategies there's both plus and minus
this means that Delta often is just
around zero Vega measures the route
change in the options price for rise in
implied volatility
so plus four short butterfly spread
means that they profit from a rise in
implied volatility hence they should be
entered in low IV environment to find
out how high implied volatility
currently is you should use IV rank IV
rank compares the current IV of an acid
to the state of IV in past times an IV
rank of over fifty represents times of
high IV and below 50 is a low IV
environment logically you should thus
enter short butterfly spreads when IV
rank is under 50 as Vega is negative for
long butterfly spreads all of this is
the other way around
meaning that long butterfly spreads
profit from a drop in implied volatility
therefore they should be entered in
times of higher implied volatility so IV
rank over 50 the next Greek is theater
and it is very important it measures the
change in the options price for time
passing by a plus means that the
position gains some value every single
day the amount that an option loses or
gains increases the closer the option is
to expiration therefore time is the
worst enemy for of short butterfly
spreads as the underlying price has less
and less time to move outside of the
losing range this is yet again the other
way around for long butterfly spread as
the price already is in the profitable
range right after the entry last but not
least comes gamma gamma measures the
rate of change of Delta for every one
dollar move up in the underline a plus
means Delta increases for each move
leading to a rapid increase in the
options price a minus symbolizes that
dead decreases for every one dollar move
to make it simple the plus is usually
better than a minus gamma also increases
the closer and option is to exploration
note that all of these Greeks change
with the change of these different
factors the just presented States are
only correct if the prices near wet boss
when opening the spread if you want to
learn a little more about option pricing
and the greaves I suggest checking out
my video on it I will leave a link in
the description below now I want to
present two example butterfly spreads on
two different assets the first example
is a short PUD butterfly spread on the
very liquid ETF SP Y back then SP y was
trading at around $250 the shorts rights
of that short put butterfly where 248
and 252 that's a spread of $4 and the
underlying price was just in the middle
of these that means that already a $3
move in either direction before
expiration would lead to max profit a
move like that is quite likely that is
also why it happened the two blue lines
on the chart show the shorts rights
everything beyond those lines is max
profit the not profitable range is quite
small and this really shows the high
probability aspect of butterfly spread
SP wise price moves out of this range
within no time the next and last example
is a long cold butterfly spread the
underlying asset is dia and it was
trailing at circa 2 and 12.5 dollars the
long strikes were two hundred eleven
point five and two hundred fifteen point
five and are shown by the two lines the
range between those lines
roughly indicate the profitable range as
you can see that range is relatively
small and the underlying price only
stays in
range for quite a limited time before we
finish I want to present some tips and a
brief recap on both strategies first of
all I want to say short butterfly
spreads are in my opinion a good
strategy especially due to the high
probability aspect most other high
probability option strategies are range
bound strategies and short butterfly
spreads art I find that quite
interesting when setting up butterfly
spreads I recommend not picking strikes
that are either too far or too little
out of the money as this can impact the
probability of profit or the credit
taken in negatively furthermore you
should always take in a credit when
opening this strategy this credit
shouldn't be too small as it otherwise
isn't worth your time I have $40 as a
minimum credit as a rule of thumb it is
often a good idea to take profit early
instead of waiting and holding all the
way to expiration
but don't take profits too early ideally
you should enter this strategy in times
of low IV so use IV rank to your health
finally the probability of max loss is
very low and this makes this strategy
even better long butterfly spreads can
be a good strategy as well they are one
of many range-bound strategies and I
normally like these kind of strategies
as they often have a high probability of
success but sadly this isn't really the
case for long butterfly spreads I find
them too narrow for me and I prefer a
short credit spread or short strangles
over the strategy but you can increase
the probability of profit by making the
spread wider optimally you should enter
this strategy in times of high IV so you
can profit from a drop in it
just like Max loss was unlikely for
short butterflies max profit is also
unlikely for long butterfly spreads
obviously this is a bad thing and that's
yet another reason why I don't trade
long butterfly spreads if you want to
learn more about butterfly spreads other
strategies or draft trading in general
you should definitely check out my
website trade options with me calm
I offer 100% free educational courses
with the video lessons thorough articles
and quizzes to test your knowledge
otherwise I really want to thank you for
watching this video
you